docs/data-model.md, before:

# Workspace Data Model

The ATT&CK Workbench database supports the following ATT&CK object types
(with the corresponding STIX types where applicable):
- Collection (x-mitre-collection)
- Matrix (x-mitre-matrix)
- Technique (attack-pattern)
- Group (intrusion-set)
- Software (malware or tool)
- Mitigation (course-of-action)
- Tactic (x-mitre-tactic)
- Data Source (x-mitre-data-source)
- Identity (identity)
- Marking Definition (marking-definition)
- Relationship (relationship)
- Collection Index

### attackObjects Collection

Most objects are stored in the `attackObjects` collection.
This includes objects of the types listed above, except for the Collection Index object.
Objects in the `attackObjects` collection follow a consistent pattern,
though each type has a number of properties that are specific to that type.

The `stix` property holds a STIX formatted object and contains the data that is eligible to be exported.
The `workspace` property holds the data that is used within the workspace to manage the object. 

### Unique Identifiers

For most objects, the combination of `stix.id` and `stix.modified`
uniquely identify an instance of an object. The `stix.modified` property
distinguishes versions of the `stix.id` object.

The `_id` property also uniquely identifies an object,
but is not used outside of the MongoDB database.
`_id` is necessary because there is no natural property that uniquely identifies an
object by itself. `stix.id` is only unique when combined with `stix.modified`.

### Mongoose Discriminator

Objects of multiple types are stored in the `attackObjects` collection.
This is done to facilitate simpler lookup of objects that may be of different types,
for example, an object that is the `src_ref` or `target_ref` of a `relationship` object.
The Mongoose discriminator capability supports storing multiple object types in
a single collection, while still using a schema that is specific to each object type.

The `__t` property is created and managed by Mongoose to distinguish between the different types of
objects stored in the `attackObjects` collection.

### Sample Technique

A technique is stored in the database in the following format:
```json
{
    "_id": ObjectId("5fb1b9d8e1af0600177092ec"),
    "__t": "Technique",
    "stix": {
            "id": "attack-pattern--15dbf668-795c-41e6-8219-f0447c0e64ce",
            "type": "attack-pattern",
            "name": "Permission Groups Discovery",
            "created": "2017-05-31T21:30:55.471Z",
            "modified": "2020-10-08T17:36:01.675Z",
            "created_by_ref": "identity--c78cb6e5-0c4b-4611-8297-d1b8b55e40b5",
            "description": "Adversaries may attempt to find group and permission settings. This information can help adversaries determine which user accounts and groups are available, the membership of users in particular groups, and which users and groups have elevated permissions.",
            "spec_version": "2.1", 
            "external_references": [
                {
                    "source_name": "mitre-attack",
                    "external_id": "T1069",
                    "url": "https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069"
                },
                {
                    "external_id": "CAPEC-576",
                    "source_name": "capec",
                    "url": "https://capec.mitre.org/data/definitions/576.html"
                }
            ],
            "object_marking_refs": [
                "marking-definition--fa42a846-8d90-4e51-bc29-71d5b4802168"
            ],
            "kill_chain_phases": [
                {
                    "kill_chain_name": "mitre-attack",
                    "phase_name": "discovery"
                }
            ],
            "x_mitre_is_subtechnique": false,
            "x_mitre_contributors": [
                "Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center (MSTIC)"
            ],
            "x_mitre_platforms": [
                "Linux",
                "macOS",
                "Windows",
                "Office 365",
                "Azure AD",
                "AWS",
                "GCP",
                "Azure",
                "SaaS"
            ],
            "x_mitre_permissions_required": [
                "User"
            ],
            "x_mitre_detection": "System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.\n\nMonitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as [Windows Management Instrumentation](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1047) and [PowerShell](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/001).",
            "x_mitre_data_sources": [
                "Stackdriver logs",
                "GCP audit logs",
                "AWS CloudTrail logs",
                "Azure activity logs",
                "Office 365 account logs",
                "API monitoring",
                "Process monitoring",
                "Process command-line parameters"
            ],
            "x_mitre_version": "2.2"
    },
    "workspace": {
        "domains": ["attack-enterprise"]
    }
}
```

Commit message:

Add the collection index endpoints, with tests.

docs/data-model.md, after:

# Workspace Data Model

The ATT&CK Workbench database supports the following ATT&CK object types
(with the corresponding STIX types where applicable):
- Collection (x-mitre-collection)
- Matrix (x-mitre-matrix)
- Technique (attack-pattern)
- Group (intrusion-set)
- Software (malware or tool)
- Mitigation (course-of-action)
- Tactic (x-mitre-tactic)
- Data Source (x-mitre-data-source)
- Identity (identity)
- Marking Definition (marking-definition)
- Relationship (relationship)
- Collection Index

### Note on updating objects

Most ATT&CK object types should be updated by creating a new object with a new `modified` timestamp (POST request).
The Collection Index is different and should be updated by modifying (overwriting) the current object (PUT request).

### attackObjects Collection

Most objects are stored in the `attackObjects` collection.
This includes objects of the types listed above, except for the Collection Index object.
Objects in the `attackObjects` collection follow a consistent pattern,
though each type has a number of properties that are specific to that type.

The `stix` property holds a STIX formatted object and contains the data that is eligible to be exported.
The `workspace` property holds the data that is used within the workspace to manage the object. 

### Unique Identifiers

For most objects, the combination of `stix.id` and `stix.modified`
uniquely identify an instance of an object. The `stix.modified` property
distinguishes versions of the `stix.id` object.

The `_id` property also uniquely identifies an object,
but is not used outside of the MongoDB database.
`_id` is necessary because there is no natural property that uniquely identifies an
object by itself. `stix.id` is only unique when combined with `stix.modified`.

### Mongoose Discriminator

Objects of multiple types are stored in the `attackObjects` collection.
This is done to facilitate simpler lookup of objects that may be of different types,
for example, an object that is the `src_ref` or `target_ref` of a `relationship` object.
The Mongoose discriminator capability supports storing multiple object types in
a single collection, while still using a schema that is specific to each object type.

The `__t` property is created and managed by Mongoose to distinguish between the different types of
objects stored in the `attackObjects` collection.

### Sample Technique

A technique is stored in the database in the following format:
```json
{
    "_id": ObjectId("5fb1b9d8e1af0600177092ec"),
    "__t": "Technique",
    "stix": {
            "id": "attack-pattern--15dbf668-795c-41e6-8219-f0447c0e64ce",
            "type": "attack-pattern",
            "name": "Permission Groups Discovery",
            "created": "2017-05-31T21:30:55.471Z",
            "modified": "2020-10-08T17:36:01.675Z",
            "created_by_ref": "identity--c78cb6e5-0c4b-4611-8297-d1b8b55e40b5",
            "description": "Adversaries may attempt to find group and permission settings. This information can help adversaries determine which user accounts and groups are available, the membership of users in particular groups, and which users and groups have elevated permissions.",
            "spec_version": "2.1", 
            "external_references": [
                {
                    "source_name": "mitre-attack",
                    "external_id": "T1069",
                    "url": "https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069"
                },
                {
                    "external_id": "CAPEC-576",
                    "source_name": "capec",
                    "url": "https://capec.mitre.org/data/definitions/576.html"
                }
            ],
            "object_marking_refs": [
                "marking-definition--fa42a846-8d90-4e51-bc29-71d5b4802168"
            ],
            "kill_chain_phases": [
                {
                    "kill_chain_name": "mitre-attack",
                    "phase_name": "discovery"
                }
            ],
            "x_mitre_is_subtechnique": false,
            "x_mitre_contributors": [
                "Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center (MSTIC)"
            ],
            "x_mitre_platforms": [
                "Linux",
                "macOS",
                "Windows",
                "Office 365",
                "Azure AD",
                "AWS",
                "GCP",
                "Azure",
                "SaaS"
            ],
            "x_mitre_permissions_required": [
                "User"
            ],
            "x_mitre_detection": "System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an adversary learns the environment. Data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the information obtained.\n\nMonitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could be taken to gather system and network information. Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as [Windows Management Instrumentation](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1047) and [PowerShell](https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/001).",
            "x_mitre_data_sources": [
                "Stackdriver logs",
                "GCP audit logs",
                "AWS CloudTrail logs",
                "Azure activity logs",
                "Office 365 account logs",
                "API monitoring",
                "Process monitoring",
                "Process command-line parameters"
            ],
            "x_mitre_version": "2.2"
    },
    "workspace": {
        "domains": ["attack-enterprise"]
    }
}
```
